clarify build on docs content and move doc to dag section (#5633)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/legacy-dbt-docs.md

---
title: "Legacy dbt Docs"
description: "Automatically generate project documentation as you run jobs with the legacy dbt Docs."
pagination_next: null
---

<p style={{ color: '#808080', fontSize: '1.1em' }}>
dbt Docs is a legacy feature that enables you to generate documentation for your project and data platform, rendering it as a website. The documentation is only updated with new information after a fully successful job run, ensuring accuracy and relevance.
</p>

> The default documentation experience in dbt Cloud is [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects), available on [Team or Enterprise plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/), which provides a richer and more interactive experience for understanding your project's resources and lineage. This shift makes dbt Docs a legacy documentation feature in dbt Cloud, and is accessible through dbt Explorer.

Author: confirm for tech accuracy

Reviewer: yep! looks right

> This document guides you on how to use dbt Docs to generate a website from your dbt project using the `dbt docs generate` command. It provides a central location to view your project's resources, such as models, tests, and metrics, and lineage  &mdash; and helps you understand the data in your warehouse. dbt Docs is currently available on developer plans or dbt Core users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document guides you on how to use dbt Docs to generate a static website from your dbt project using the `dbt docs generate` command. It provides a point-in-time view of your project's resources, such as models, tests, and metrics, and lineage  &mdash; and helps you understand the data in your warehouse. dbt Docs is currently available on developer plans or dbt Core users.
```

Refer to [Documentation](/docs/build/documentation) for more configuration details.

> ## Set up a documentation job

Reviewer: I think we can kill this section since it's duplicative of the new page

After generating your documentation, you can click the icon above the file tree, to see the latest version of your documentation rendered in a new browser window.

## View documentation

:::tip Use dbt Explorer for a richer documentation experience
For a  richer and more interactive experience for understanding your project's resources and lineage, try out [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects), available on [Team or Enterprise plans](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/).

It includes map layers of your DAG, keyword search, interacts with the IDE, model performance, project recommendations, and more.
:::

Once you set up a job to generate [documentation](/docs/build/documentation) for your project, you can view documentation in the following ways:

- In the dbt Cloud IDE, click the icon above the file tree in the editor to see the latest version of your documentation rendered in a new browser window. View your documentation for your dbt project while your code is still in development. With this workflow, you can inspect and verify what your project's generated documentation will look like before your changes are released to production.

> - In the dbt Cloud user interface, click **Documentation** in the navigation to view your project's documentation. This link will always help you find the most recent version of your project's documentation in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer: This does not exist anymore! we should remove this bullet. docs are still available on the job run page i believe

Author: oh yea that's right, thank you `Dave!
